{\rtf1\ansi\deff1
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss Arial;}{\f2\fnil Courier New;}{\f3\froman Symbol;}{\f4\fnil Wingdings;}{\f5\fnil Times New Roman CE;}{\f6\fnil Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f7\fnil Times New Roman Greek;}{\f8\fnil Times New Roman Tur;}{\f9\fnil Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f10\fnil Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f11\froman Times New Roman Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs24 \snext0 Normal;}
}\pard\plain
\pard \fs24 Audiometer Main Screen Help
\par \fs20 The main program window consists of three main elements:
\par \pard\li355\fi-355\tx355 \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Pull-down menu
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Personal subject data
\par \f3\fs18 \'b7\tab \f1\fs20 Audiogram
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The \b pull-down menu \plain\fs20 allows access to all user options of the program and is described \uldb here\plain\fs20 . The personal data section allows the entry of the name, date of birth, an employee reference number and a short comment. This data is saved together with the audiogram.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The \b personal data\plain\fs20  section allows the entry of the name, date of birth, an employee reference number and a short comment. This data is saved together with the audiogram.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The \b audiogram \plain\fs20 contains audiometric test data (if tested) in standard format according to ISO 8253-1: 1989. It can show the level traces from the so-called Bekesy test directly as well as the calculated average hearing threshold levels, depending on the program settings. If the test values vary beyond the tolerance levels for acceptable variation, diagonal hatching highlights the corresponding column in the audiogram.
\par \pard\tx355 In order to get a complete valid audiogram, retest these invalid columns by choosing \f11 \'91\f1\ul\cf1 Re-Test\f11\ul \'92\plain\fs20  from the \f11 \'91\f1 Test\f11 \'92\f1  Menu.
\par \par
\pard \fs24 File Menu Options
\par \b\fs20 New
\par \plain\fs20 Deletes all current personal data and any measured audiogram. Choose this option to test a new subject.
\par 
\par \b Open
\par \plain\fs20 Displays a dialog box, where the user can choose a file name to re-open previously saved test data. This data can then be viewed, printed, compared with other tests or the subject can be tested again. Saved audiograms can also be opened by double clicking on them in the Windows Explorer similar to many other Windows applications.
\par \pard  
\par \b Save
\par \plain\fs20 Displays a dialog box, where the user can choose a file name and then save the test and subject data to disk. The user can choose between two different file formats:
\par \i Normal Audiogram.\plain\fs20  This format saves all relevant data for use in the Home Audiometer software. 
\par \i ASCII text\plain\fs20 . This format allows the user to export measured audiograms for use in other program, for example a spreadsheet, which might allow the user to compare and statistically analyse a number of different results.
\par \pard \b 
\par Print
\par \plain\fs20 This option allows the user to print the subject data and the audiogram using any standard Windows compatible printer. The Printout is an exact copy of the main program window.
\par The best results are achieved using a colour printer.
\par \b 
\par Printer Set-up
\par \plain\fs20 Displays a standard Windows printer dialog box. 
\par \b 
\par Settings
\par \plain\fs20 This program has got an extensive settings section, which makes it very flexible for different applications and user preferences. When the user presses the \f11 \'91\f1 OK\f11 \'92\f1  button, the values are stored in the Windows Registry. The values are kept permanently and are not lost when the user exits and restarts the program.
\par \pard The settings are divided into five different sections, which are described separately.
\par 
\par \b\fs24 Calibration Menu Options
\par \fs20 Load Calibration Data
\par \plain\fs20 A calibration performed and stored previously can be opened here. Double clicking on the .cal file in Windows Explorer also opens calibration data with Home Audiometer.
\par \b 
\par New Calibration by Ear
\par \plain\fs20 This option allows the user to calibrate the audiometer without the need for external calibration equipment. Remember: This is a substitute for a real calibration, and intrinsically not as precise. It is crucial to get the calibration right, if you want as accurate results as possible. Read \uldb here\plain\fs20  for a description of the calibration process.
\par \pard 
\par \b Calibration - Check or Recalibrate
\par \plain\fs20 This option is similar to \f11 \'91\f1 New Calibration\f11 \'92\f1 , but do not dismiss the currently loaded data. This makes it possible to check or correct a previous calibration.
\par This is particularly useful to check the stability and validity of a calibration setting over a longer period.
\par 
\par \b Calibration - Information
\par \plain\fs20 Shows the extra information saved with the currently loaded calibration data.
\par 
\par \b\fs24 Test Menu\plain\fs24 
\par \b\fs20 New Test
\par \pard \plain\fs20 This dismisses the current test results and starts a new audiometric test using the parameters defined in the \f11 \'91\f1 settings\f11 \'92\f1  section. Please note that this menu option is only active when the system has been calibrated or previous calibration data has been loaded. Click \uldb here\plain\fs20 for a detailed Test procedure description.
\par During a test, the trace of the currently tested frequency and the state of the subject response button can be seen in the real time trace window. All frequencies completed will be displayed immediately in the main audiogram.
\par \pard If a test on one certain frequency lies outside the tolerance criteria for a valid result, it is marked and can then be re-tested.
\par 
\par \b Retest
\par \plain\fs20 Invalid results (due to inconsistent subject responses) of an audiometry test can be re-tested without the need for a complete test re-run. This can also be done automatically after each test by selecting \f11 \'91\f1 Auto Retest\f11 \'92\f1  in the program \uldb settings\plain\fs20  This menu option is only active when the system has been calibrated or previous calibration data has been loaded.
\par \pard 
\par \b Audiometry - View Results
\par \plain\fs20 This option displays the test results, calculates and shows the result category according to [1]. 
\par It also allows the user to print the results.
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Test Procedure
\par \plain\fs20 The Test procedure can be customised by changing a range of parameters. These parameters are set to default values according to International Standard ISO 8253-1. 
\par For best results leave the parameters as they are, unless you have specific reasons to change them.
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Test frequencies\cell\pard \pard\intbl Chooses the frequencies at which the subject is tested\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Signal duration\cell\pard \pard\intbl Duration of a single tone pulse\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Gap duration\cell\pard \pard\intbl Duration of the silence gap between two pulses\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Level steps\cell\pard \pard\intbl Level difference between two pulses when going up or down in level.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Initial level\cell\pard \pard\intbl The hearing level in dB, at which the test procedure starts. Please note that a single frequency always starts at the same level the previous frequency ended.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Maximum test duration\cell\pard \pard\intbl Maximum length of the test for one frequency. If this time is reached, the test continues with the next frequency. If the minimum number of reversals have not been reached, the results are marked as invalid. If no maximum time should be given, set this to a very high value.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Minimum test reversals\cell\pard \pard\intbl Minimum number of reversals for one frequency. If this number is reached, the test continues with the next frequency. \cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Trial run\cell\pard \pard\intbl Starts with a trial run at 1kHz, which gives the subject time to become familiarised with the test procedure before the actual test. The trial run must be ended by the operator in front of the screen.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Left ear first\cell\pard \pard\intbl The left ear is tested first.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Repeat @ 1kHz\cell\pard \pard\intbl Left ear is tested twice at 1 kHz. This can give clues about the reliability of the replies of the test subject. The difference between the two results is given in the results section.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2155\cellx8275\pard\intbl Auto retest\cell\pard \pard\intbl Automatically re-tests invalid results immediately after the initial test without the need for the operator to stand by or intervene. The tests are repeated until all results are recognised as valid.\cell\intbl\row
\pard 
\par \b\fs24 Hardware
\par \pard \fs20 Soundcards
\par \pard \plain\fs20 Choose the output and mixing device here. There is no need to change this unless you have more than one sound card in your system.
\par You can also open the Windows Multimedia Options here to check your sound cards.
\par \pard \b 
\par Test Response Button
\par \pard \plain\fs20 Choose the Control type here, either a Joystick/Game pad type device or the CTRL-Key on the keyboard. A Game pad is highly recommended, as it is quieter, more reliable and the test subject can sit away from the PC.
\par You can also test the Game pad here, the red dot should respond to button presses on the gaming device. There is also a direct link to the Windows Gaming Device Options.
\par 
\par \b\fs24 File Handling\fs20 
\par \plain\fs20 Sets default values for file names and file location used. This can simplify and standardise the data storage and processing.
\par \pard 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Suggested file name\cell\pard \pard\intbl This list gives the options of which filename will be suggested when saving the test data.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Default drive and directory\cell\pard \pard\intbl Selects the disk drive and directory where the data is saved.\cell\intbl\row
\pard \b 
\par \fs24 Graph display
\par \plain\fs20 These options change the appearance of the audiogram and selects how the results are displayed.
\par 
\par \trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Show level traces\cell\pard \pard\intbl Switches the display of the level traces on and off.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Show thresholds\cell\pard \pard\intbl Switches the display of the calculated threshold levels on and off.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Highlight inaccurate results\cell\pard \pard\intbl Switches the highlighting of those results, which do not fulfil the criteria for valid results, on and off.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Ignore first reversal\cell\pard \pard\intbl According to ISO 8253-1: 1989 the first reversal should be ignored for the calculation of the threshold. This can be switched on and off.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Update Audiometer during test\cell\pard \pard\intbl Switches the real time display of the audiometer on and off. The real time display is compulsory for type 4 audiometers, but could lead to performance problems on slower computers.\cell\intbl\row
\trowd\trgaph105\trleft-106 \cellx2245\cellx8275\pard\intbl Graph colours\cell\pard \pard\intbl Changes the colours of the audiogram.\cell\intbl\row
\pard 
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Introduction
\par \plain\i\fs20 Please read, it will only take you a few minutes and will get you testing successfully quickly!!
\par \pard\sl355 \plain\uldb\fs20 
\par What is this software, and what is an Audiometer anyway?\plain\fs20  
\par \uldb What else do I need to test my Hearing?\plain\fs20 
\par \uldb How Do I test if my sound card and headphones are suitable for this software?\plain\fs20 
\par \uldb Getting started with using the software \plain\fs20  \uldb 
\par \plain\fs20 
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 FAQ 
\par \plain\fs20 
\par \b Which headphones, sound cards and Game pad do you recommend?
\par \plain\fs20 The best sound card/headphones combination I found is a SoundBlaster mp3+ USB Sound System and real audiometric headphones, Telephonics TDH39\f11 \'92\f1 s or Sennheiser DT48.
\par 
\par I can also recommend (and use myself) \uldb Plantronics DSP-400 USB headphones\plain\fs20 , as they are high quality and they are independent of the sound card of your computer.
\par \pard\li715\fi-355\tx715 
\par Due to the Windows driver concept and the flexibility of the program, a range of sound cards can be used. The minimum requirements for any sound card are:
\par \plain\f0\fs20 -\tab \f1 High-level headphone output, 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f0\fs20 -\tab \f1 Build in Windows volume control and 
\par \pard\li715\fi-355\tx355 \plain\f0\fs20 -\tab \f1 Low noise (Signal to noise ratio of at least about 80 dB, check with your sound card manual). 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 Some older Creative Sound Blaster AWE 32 and 64 are not suitable due to the high output noise level.
\par \pard\tx355 You can test your own hardware in the \uldb Compatibility Test\plain\fs20 , accessed from the main Menu in the Calibration section.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 The \b Game pad\plain\fs20  I use is a \uldb Logitech Precision USB\plain\fs20 , but any other game pad should also work. At the time of writing they cost from about $10. 
\par \pard\tx355 If you do not have a game controller, you can also use the CTRL-key on the keyboard.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b How do I build a custom response button to replace the game port joystick?
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 If you want to use your own response button, this is the diagram of the circuit you need. 
\par \pard\tx355 The resistors can be any value: I used 100K. This button is connected to the \i game port.\plain\fs20 
\par \pard\tx355 Remember: You will have to install the Windows driver for an analogue joystick (2-axis, 2 button), otherwise the software does not recognise the button.
\par \pard\tx355 I recommend you try using the software with an actual game port Joystick to ensure it works with your game port and then try your own response button.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 {\field {\*\fldinst import bm0.WMF}}
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 How to Calibrate the Home Audiometer by Ear
\par \plain\fs20 This option allows the user to calibrate the audiometer without the need for external calibration equipment. Remember: This is a substitute for an objective instrument-based calibration, and intrinsically not as precise. It is crucial to get the calibration right if you want accurate results. It is recommended that the person who calibrates the audiometer this way has a set of recent results from a professional hearing test as a reference or, as a minimum, is known to have normal hearing and is preferably under 30 years old and not a regular clubber or user of a personal stereo!
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \b Step-by-Step guide:
\par \plain\f3\fs20 \'b7\tab \f1 Wear the audiometric headphones in the same manner as during a test in a \i quiet environment\plain\fs20 . If the cables are long enough, you could go into the next room or you might have to cover your computer with a blanket or bedding.
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 Repeat the following steps for every frequency and side:\line
1. Type the known hearing level into the yellow box. If you don\f11 \'92\f1 t have any reference results, set all values to zero, limitations for this method see above!\line
2. Switch the (pulsating) test sound to ON and then change the output level by moving the volume sliders up and down until the level is in the middle between definetely hearable and definetely unhearable. This will define the hearing threshold. If you cannot hear anything even at the highest level, your sound card/headphone combination might not be suitable.\line
3. Click next to jump to the next frequency. 
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 At the end, an extra window comes up where you can add information and comments to the data before it is saved to disk. This is purely to make it easier to recognise and organize calibration files.
\par \pard\li175\tx355 
\par \pard\li175\tx355 \i Hints\plain\fs20 :
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 At any time, you can go back and check previous frequencies without losing any values already set. When finished with the left side the same slider settings will automatically be suggested for the same frequencies of the right side. This can speed the process up, because in most cases they are the same or very similar for both sides.
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 Try your calibration by testing the calibrating person. If you have done everything correctly, you should get the hearing level values that were typed into the yellow box during calibration.
\par \pard\li355\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 Some sound cards and headphones (including the recommended Plantronics models) have bass/treble/EQ controls and bass boost or 3D effect on/off switches. Please set these to neutral or disable them, as they affect pure tone playback.
\par \pard\tx355 
\par \pard\tx355 \b\fs24 Calibration - Check or Recalibrate
\par \pard\tx355 \plain\fs20 This option is similar to \f11 \'91\f1 New Calibration\f11 \'92\f1 , but do not dismiss the currently loaded data. This makes it possible to check or correct a previous calibration.
\par \pard\tx355 This is particularly useful to check the stability and validity of a calibration setting over a longer period.
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Audiometric Test Procedure (New Test)
\par \plain\fs20 The current test results are dismissed and a new audiometric test using the parameters defined in the \f11 \'91\f1 settings\f11 \'92\f1  section is started. Please note that this menu option is only active when the system has been calibrated or previous calibration data has been loaded.
\par During a test, the trace of the currently tested frequency and the state of the subject response button can be seen in the real time trace window. All frequencies completed will be displayed immediately in the main audiogram.
\par \pard\li175\fi-175 If a test on one certain frequency and ear lies outside the tolerance criteria for a valid result, it is marked and can then be re-tested.
\par \i\b Hints:
\par \plain\f3\fs20 \'b7\tab \f1 If the operator and the subject are one person, i.e. you are testing yourself, make sure you are NOT watching the computer monitor during the test, because this would almost certainly give you so many hints for the tone, that the test result would be meaningless.
\par \pard\li175\fi-175\tx355 \f3 \'b7\tab \f1 If you are testing yourself, you can start the actual test with the subject\f11 \'92\f1 s respond-button. Please follow the information on the pop-up screens.
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Needed for testing your hearing:
\par \plain\fs20 In terms of additional hardware you will need a pair of \b Headphones. \plain\fs20 Also recommended is a \b Joystick\plain\fs20  (or Gamepad, USB or Gameport) as subject response button. See the \uldb FAQ\plain\fs20  how to build a custom response button.
\par 
\par The software runs on any 32-bit \b Windows computer\plain\fs20  (95/98/ME/NT/2000/XP). A Pentium 100 or equivalent with 16MB memory is recommended for real-time audiogram display during the test procedure. Due to the size of the on-screen audiograms a screen resolution of at least 800x600 is required and at least 256 colours are recommended.
\par \pard 
\par The test must be done in a \b Quiet Room\plain\fs20 , i.e. best next door from your computer with extension leads, unless you have exceptionally quiet fans in your PC. You can also cover your computer with bedding or a blanket, but make sure your PC does not overheat!
\par Due to the Windows driver concept and the flexibility of the program, a range of \b Sound Cards\plain\fs20  can be used. The minimum requirements for any sound card are DA-Converter, Mixer unit and a S/N ration of at least about 80 dB.
\par \pard You can test your hardware in the \uldb Compatibility Test\plain\fs20 , accessed from the main Menu in the Calibration section.
\par 
\par Any graphical Windows compatible \b Printer\plain\fs20  is supported and for best printing results, a colour printer is recommended.
\par 
\par \pard\qc {\field {\*\fldinst import bm1.WMF}}
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 What is an Audiometer?
\par \plain\fs20 An audiometer is a device that can measure a persons hearing, i.e. if their hearing is normal or impaired in any way (various degrees of deafness). The measurement can then give an indication of what might have caused the impairment (noise, age etc.)
\par Most people have had an ear test done at some point of their life, at school, their workplace, national service or their ENT doctor.
\par The most commonly used scientific method used is to play low level pure tone \f11 \'91\f1 beeps\f11 \'92\f1  (sine wave) at different frequencies (tone pitch) with varying levels to the test subject, and the person responds by pressing a button if the tone was heard (Bekesy Test). This is repeated several times to then get a reliable average.
\par \pard The results for each are measured in \b D\plain\fs20 eci\b b\plain\fs20 el \b H\plain\fs20 earing \b L\plain\fs20 evel, where 0 dBHL represents \f11 \'91\f1 normal\f11 \'92\f1  hearing level for each frequency, 10 dB is still not unusual, and from about 50dB one can talk about serious impairments, which would not have gone unnoticed.
\par Professional audiometers have an accuracy of within 5 dB, and so has the professional edition of this software. This home edition\i  \plain\fs20 can get within 10-15 dB of the true hearing level.
\par \pard The professional edition of this software can be turned into a professional audiometer, when used with suitable hardware. Previous audiometry software written by the author was used at a British university for high frequency audiometry research, because it was the only tool suitable and flexible enough for their research. 
\par At the same time, the home edition is meant as a relatively cheap tool that allows everybody at home to get a good idea about his or her hearing abilities.
\par \pard 
\par These are some of the things you can find out about your hearing with this audiometer:
\par 
\par \b Noise induced, permanent hearing loss
\par \plain\fs20 If you have a noise induced hearing impairment, this will show up on an audiogram as a dip in the 4 Kilohertz region, i.e. your hearing is worse at 4000 Hertz than it is above and below.
\par A typical symptom of rifle shooting is noise induced hearing damage on the ear close to the gun. This is called Permanent Threshold Shift (PTS)
\par 
\par \b Temporary hearing loss
\par \pard \plain\fs20 Test yourself before and after e.g. a loud concert or an evening out in a nightclub. You should notice a difference in your hearing level, which normally disappears after a few days. This is called Temporary Threshold Shift (TTS).
\par 
\par \b Age related hearing loss (Presbyacousis)
\par \plain\fs20 Compare your hearing to an older our younger member of your family, friends or colleagues. 
\par By nature, the hearing of humans gets worse with age starting at the high frequencies.
\par 
\par 
\par \b Further Reading:
\par \pard \uldb \plain\uldb\fs20 This\plain\fs20  is a worthwhile read on the hearing and damage from the University College of London Website (PDF File, you need Adobe Acrobat Reader)
\par \uldb Here\plain\fs20   is an article on audiometry calibration by the British National Physics Laboratory and \uldb here\plain\fs20  one on the acoustics of hearing.
\par \pard (Click on the underlined links to be taken to the articles on the Internet)\uldb 
\par \plain\fs20 
\par \b References:
\par \plain\fs20 On the stability of auditory threshold 
\par \i M.E. Delany NPL Aero Report Ac44 National Physical Laboratory
\par \plain\fs20 
\par International Standard IEC 60645-1 Part 1: Audiometers
\par 
\par British Standard BS 6655:1986 \'93Pure tone air conduction threshold audiometry for hearing conservation purposes\'94
\par 
\par International Standard ISO 8253-1 Part 1: \'93Basic pure tone air and bone conduction threshold audiometry\'94
\par \pard \i Technical Committee ISO/TC 43, Acoustics
\par \par
\pard \plain\b\fs24 Getting started
\par \plain\fs20 
\par 1) Make sure that your computer fulfils the \uldb \b Requirements\plain\b\fs20 \plain\fs20  to perform audiometry tests.
\par 
\par 2) \uldb \b Calibration\plain\b\fs20 
\par \plain\fs20 In order to do meaningful tests, you will have to calibrate your computer-soundcard-headphone system to a known, nominal hearing level. See \uldb here\plain\fs20  for instructions.
\par \b 
\par \plain\fs20 3) \b\uldb Test procedure\plain\fs20  Now you can start the actual test procedure. See \uldb here\plain\fs20  for details.
\par \par
\pard\li715\ri945\fi-715 \b\fs24 How to register / order the unlocking key:
\par \pard\ri945 \plain\fs20 
\par \pard \b How to register / order the unlocking key:
\par \pard \plain\fs20 Ordering online is the fastest way to register the software. You can pay with most credit and debit cards via ShareIt\f11 \'92\f1 s secure server. Go to the \uldb Order Pages\plain\fs20  or to http://www.shareit.com and enter the program ID number 156633 in the search window at the bottom left of the screen.
\par \b 
\par Once you have registered online, a key will be sent to you by email immediately\plain\fs20 . 
\par \pard You can enter the key in the \f11 \'91\f1 About\f11 \'92\f1  window, and the program become fully functional straight away.
\par 
\par Our payment options include the choice of \b credit cards, debit cards, bank transfers, checks, cash, or purchase orders / orders on account, \plain\fs20 including billing in various currencies. We accept\b  Visa, MasterCard, EuroCard, American Express, Discover, JCB, Diners Club, Switch and Solo.\plain\fs20  Credit and debit card payments are authorized within just a few seconds, and customers receive their registration key immediately afterward. You can send checks to our offices in the U.S. and Europe as well as wire transfer money to local bank accounts in their country.\'a0
\par \pard If you prefer to order offline, you can place your order with the ShareIt customer service team by phone, fax or postal mail. US and Canadian customers may order by calling toll-free 1-800-903-4152.
\par This hotline is only for ordering. You must contact the author directly for technical support at: timo.esser@lineone.net
\par \'a0
\par US check and cash orders can be sent to ShareIt\f11 \'92\f1 s US office at:
\par ShareIt! Inc.
\par P.O. Box 844
\par Greensburg, PA 15601, USA
\par Phone: (724) 850 - 8186
\par \pard Fax: (724) 850 - 8187
\par 
\par We also accept orders via email at: register@shareit.com
\par 
\par *** ALL CHECKS SENT TO THE U.S. OFFICE MUST BE ***
\par *** MADE PAYABLE TO:  "ShareIt! Inc." ***
\par \'a0
\par Please print out the \uldb paper order form\plain\fs20 , and fax or mail it to:
\par ShareIt!
\par element 5 AG
\par Vogelsanger Str. 78
\par 50823 Cologne
\par Germany
\par \'a0
\par Phone:     +49-221-31088-20
\par Fax:     +49-221-31088-29
\par E-Mail: register@shareit.com
\par \'a0\par
\pard \b\fs24 Registration Form for Home Audiometer
\par \plain\fs20 Program ID#156633
\par 
\par Please print out this form and fax or mail it to:
\par ShareIt!
\par element 5 AG
\par Vogelsanger Str. 78
\par 50823 Cologne
\par Germany
\par \'a0
\par How would you like to receive the license code / full version?
\par \'a0
\par e-mail - fax - postal mail
\par \'a0
\par How would you like to pay?:
\par \'a0
\par Credit card - wire transfer - check - cash
\par \'a0
\par Credit Card Information (if applicable)
\par \'a0
\par Credit Cards: Visa - Eurocard/Mastercard - American Express - Diners Club
\par \pard \'a0
\par Card Holder: ________________________________
\par \'a0
\par Card No.: ___________________________________
\par \'a0
\par Expiration Date: ________
\par \'a0
\par Date / Signature: ___________________________
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Software Description and Features
\par \plain\fs20 The Home Audiometer Hearing Test Windows software turns your PC into a machine you can use to test your hearing through a standard sound card. While this is clearly not as accurate as a professional audiometer, it can give a good indication if there is a hearing problem or not. (The accuracy is 10-15 dB compared to 5dB accuracy of a professional meter over a total hearing range of 70dB, so worse by a factor of 2-3.) 
\par Features include:
\par \pard - Test procedure to ISO standards;
\par - Graphical display of results;
\par - System is calibrated by ear without external hardware;
\par - Data analysis and categorisation;
\par Registered users are eligible to unlimited updates when they are released.
\par \par
\pard\li715\ri945\fi-715 \b\fs24 About Window
\par \plain\fs20 After you have \uldb \b registered\plain\b\fs20 \plain\fs20 , you can enter the registration key here.
\par \pard\ri945 See \uldb \b here\plain\b\fs20 \plain\fs20  for detailed instructions how to enter the key.
\par 
\par Once you have clicked OK, your software will have all additional features enabled.
\par \par
\pard \b\fs24 Results
\par \plain\fs20 This window shows the results in table format
\par The results are also categorised in one figure according to the categories defined by \i M.E. Delany.
\par \par
\pard \plain\b\fs20 Step-by-Step Instructions to Entering your Registration Key
\par \pard \plain\f0\fs24 
\par \f1\fs20 Once you have received the email from ShareIt with the registration key, highlight the key in the email itself with the mouse. (The key should now appear in inverse writing white on blue).
\par Right-click on the selection. You should get a context-menu like on the picture below.
\par \plain\f0\fs24 
\par \f1\fs20 {\field {\*\fldinst import bm2.WMF}}
\par 
\par Now start Home Audiometer (if you haven\f11 \'92\f1 t done so already) and go to the \f11 \'91\f1 About\f11 \'92\f1  Window. You get there from the \f11 \'91\f1 Help\f11 \'92\f1  Menu on the main software screen. Choose \f11 \'91\f1 About this program\f11 \'92\f1 .
\par \pard 
\par {\field {\*\fldinst import bm3.WMF}}
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\ri945 Once you are in this window, click on the button on the bottom left, \f11 \'91\f1 Paste from Clipboard\f11 \'92\f1 .  Now the key should appear in the white box. Please verify that you have copied the complete key by comparing the first and last letter or number. Also, no spaces or other characters should appear before or after the key itself.
\par \pard 
\par {\field {\*\fldinst import bm4.WMF}}
\par 
\par Once you have clicked OK, your software will have all additional features enabled. Also, your name should appear when you open the \f11 \'91\f1 About\f11 \'92\f1  window again.
\par \par
\pard \b Compatibility Test
\par \pard \plain\fs20 
\par This test is able to help you to determine if your sound card and headphones are suitable for use with Home Audiometer.
\par Use the volume slider on the left to vary the output volume, and the frequency slider in the middle to vary the pitch of the tone. Test tones should be generated at different tone levels (yellow field) from zero Decibels (loud) to \f11 \'96\f1 60 Decibles (barely audible).
\par 
\par If your hardware is suitable, you should be able to find settings with the volume sliders at which you can still hear the tone pulses (even though at \f11 \'96\f1 60 dB the tones will be very quiet) without getting any background noise/hiss. The very quiet tones are the crucial point of this exercise, because the Audiometer will generate tones near your hearing threshold during the test to see if your hearing is OK or not.
\par \pard 
\par If you find that the tones at -60 dB are too low or too noisy I would recommend buying a pair of USB headphones. These have a \f11 \'91\f1 sound card\f11 \'92\f1  (Digital to Analog converter) integrated and have been proven to work very well with this software. See \uldb here\plain\fs20  for more details.
\par 
\par Some sound cards and headphones (including the recommended Sound Blaster USB Device and Plantronics headphones) have bass/treble/EQ controls and bass boost or 3D effect on/off switches. Please set these to neutral or \b disable all effects and equalizers\plain\fs20 , as they affect pure tone playback.
\par \pard 
\par }